docs: onboarding customers and users (#7105)
zitadel/zitadel: docs/docs/guides/solution-scenarios/onboarding/b2b.mdx

---
title: Onboarding B2B Customer
sidebar_label: Onboard B2B customer
---

When you want to build an onboarding process for your business customers you have to go through the following steps:
1. Create an organization: The organization represents the customer or a team
2. Create the first administrator user: This user is the account for your customer, which should be able to configure settings such as SSO, MFA, etc.

> 3. Give the user the correct permission to be able to configure settings, create users and assign roles to users in ZITADEL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Give the user permission to configure settings, create users and assign roles to users in ZITADEL
```

> As soon as you have the customer and the first administrator ready. Your customers are able to start managing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As soon as you have successfully created the organization and added an administrator, then your customer is able to start managing the organization and users themselves.
```

> The first actions they want to take are the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first actions they typically want to take are the following:
```

1. Invite Team member
2. Configure SSO
3. Configure Security Settings
4. Configure Branding

> ZITADEL does have multiple possibilities on how to achieve that process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ZITADEL does have multiple possibilities to achieve that process.
```

> ## Onboard in ZITADEL Management Console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Onboard customers through the ZITADEL Management Console
```

> Each ZITADEL instance does automatically bring a management console with it. This can be used to manage all your resources through a UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each ZITADEL instance does automatically bring a management console with it. The console can be used to manage all your resources through a UI.
```

Reviewer: Add link to manage > console

You can access it by calling the following URL: $CUSTOM-DOMAIN/ui/

> Make sure to authenticate with a user with permissions on an instance level such as "INSTANCE_OWNER"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that your admins have a Manager role with permissions on an instance level such as "INSTANCE_OWNER"
```

### Create a customer

You do have two different options to create a new Organization.
1. If you are on a specific organization, click the dropdown in the header and press click "+ New Organization"

<img src="/docs/img/guides/solution-scenarios/create-org-dropdown.png" alt="Create Orgnaization Dropdown"/>

2. If you are on the instance level, go to the Organization tab and click the "+ New" button above the Organization list.

<img src="/docs/img/guides/solution-scenarios/org-list-add-new.png" alt="Organization List - Add new Organization"/>

No matter which option you choose you will be redirected to the create organization screen.
If the setting "Use your personal account as organization owner" is enabled, your user will automatically get the role "ORG_OWNER" in the orgnaization.
Give the organization a name and create it.

<img src="/docs/img/guides/solution-scenarios/create-organization.png" alt="Create Organization"/>

Click on the newly created organization in the list and you will switch your context to that organization.

### Add First Administrator

> You now want to create the first user for your customer and ensure the user has enough permissions to self-manage the needed configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the first user for your customer and ensure that the user has a Manager role with enough permissions to self-manage the needed configuration.
```

#### Create User

import CreateUser from '/docs/guides/manage/console/_create-user.mdx';

<CreateUser/>

> #### Add Administrator Role to User

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Add Manager Role to User
```

> Now you need to give the right administrator role to your user. In this case we want to give "ORG_OWNER".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you need to give the right manager role to your user. In this case we want to give "ORG_OWNER".
```

If you do want to know more about the roles check out the [ZITADEL Managers Guide with the Role List](/docs/guides/manage/console/managers)

Go to the detail page of the organization and select the "+" button in the top right corner, where you already see a list of existing managers.
<img alt="Managers" src="/docs/img/guides/console/managers.png" width="200px" />

import AddManager from "/docs/guides/manage/console/_add_manager.mdx";

<AddManager name="AddManager" />

### Invite Team Members

The first user of your customer is now ready to authenticate and manage resources in ZITADEL.
First task will be inviting a team member.

We are now switching to the view of your customers administrator user.

:::note
The following actions can also be configured by an Instance Administrator for their customer.

> To show how you can use the self-management possibilities it is shown from the Customers Administrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To show how you can use the self-management possibilities it is shown from the Customer's Administrator.
```

:::

> The Administrator user got an initialization E-Mail when the user got created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Administrator user received an initialization email after the user was created.
```

As the administrator only has permission for its own organization the ZITADEL Console UI does look slightly different.

To invite a team member the admin has to repeat the steps you did before.
1. [Create User](./b2b#create-user)
2. [Add role "ORG_OWNER" to the user](./b2b#create-user#add-administrator-role-to-user)

### Setup Single-Sign-On (SSO)

Your next step is to configure SSO so your users can authenticate with an existing user into ZITADEL.

First go to the Login Behaviour and Security Settings.
Make sure that the "External IDP allowed" is enabled.
This setting does generally allow users to authenticate with an external provider.

1. Go to the Settings Page
2. Navigate to Identity Providers
   You might see already a list of activated providers here. If so, this is because some default providers are configured on the ZITADEL instances.
3. Configure the identity provider you need.
   Follow our detailed configuration description of the different providers we have: [Configure the needed identity provider](/docs/guides/integrate/identity-providers)

#### Auto-register users with SSO

> Let's assume you have configured Google as an identity provider, and you want to allow all your employees to login with the corresponding user without having to register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's assume you have configured AzureAD as an identity provider, and you want to allow all your employees to login with the corresponding user without having to register.
```

This does need some specific configuration on your provider.

> 1. Go to the detail page of your configured identity provider (In this example Google)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the detail page of your configured identity provider (In this example AzureAD)
```

3. Enable the "Account creation allowed" if it is not already
4. If you also want to allow users to link to an existing account, if they already have an account in ZITADEL, enable "Account linking allowed"

:::note
It is only possible to automatically create accounts, that send all the required information to register a new user.
If your provider does not send all the required fields that ZITADEL needs to create a user, make sure to fill them in the background with an Action.
[Example for prefilling user data automatically](/docs/guides/integrate/identity-providers/additional-information#automatically-prefill-user-data)
:::

#### Login with your user

Last step is that your user can login to ZITADEL and use the SSO account.

import OrgLoginDescription from "./_org_login_description.mdx";

<OrgLoginDescription name="OrgLodinDescription" />

Your user is now ready to login with SSO.
<img src="/docs/img/guides/solution-scenarios/user-login-with-external-idp.png" alt="User Login with SSO"/>

## Automated onboarding for your customers

> If you want to start automating the process of onboard your customers the following sections give you some guidance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to start automating the process of onboarding your customers the following sections give you some guidance.
```

### Built-in register organization form

A basic form that allows a customer to enter an organization name and a user account is hosted on the following URL:
{custom-domain}/ui/login/register/org

When a user registers through this form, an organization and a user are created.
The user will automatically get the role "ORG_OWNER" withing ZITADEL and is able to manage the whole organization.
You can read more about the managers, roles and their meanings [here](/docs/guides/manage/console/managers)

<img src="/docs/img/guides/solution-scenarios/register-organization.png" alt="Register Organization Form"/>

#### Disable built-in register organization form

> If you do not want to allow users to register organizations with this form, you can disable it with the following request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you do not want to allow users to register organizations with this form, you can disable it with the following request:
```
